skills/note/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: note
description: Create an Obsidian note summarizing the current session
argument-hint: "[learn|log]"
disable-model-invocation: true
allowed-tools:
  - Read
  - Write
  - Glob
---

## Git context

- Recent commits: !`git log --oneline -5 2>/dev/null || echo "not a git repo"`
- Changed files: !`git diff --stat 2>/dev/null || echo "no changes"`

## Configuration

First, read `~/.claude/skills/note/config.yaml` using the Read tool. This YAML file contains:

- `obsidian_vault` (required) — absolute path to the vault root
- `learn_dir` (optional, default: `Learn`) — subdirectory for learn notes
- `logs_dir` (optional, default: `Logs`) — subdirectory for session logs
- `note_language` (optional, default: `English`) — language for note content (code, commands, filenames always stay in English)

If the file does not exist or `obsidian_vault` is missing, stop and tell the user:
> To use /note, create `~/.claude/skills/note/config.yaml` with your vault path. See: https://github.com/retw/claude-code-obsidian#configuration

## Task

Analyze the current conversation and create an Obsidian note.

### Step 1: Determine note type

If the user passed an argument (`$ARGUMENTS`), use it directly:
- `learn` — create a learn note
- `log` — create a session log

Otherwise, determine the type from conversation content:
- **Learn note** — if the session involved learning, explaining, or discussing fundamental concepts
- **Session log** — if the session involved project work: writing code, fixing bugs, configuring tools, refactoring

If the session is mixed, choose the dominant type. One note per invocation.

### Step 2: Create the note

#### For Learn notes

Location: `<obsidian_vault>/<learn_dir>/<section>/<Topic>.md`

Use the values from the config. Choose `<section>` based on the topic (e.g., `Docker/`, `Git/`, `AWS/`).

Structure:

```
# Topic Name

Concise description of what this is.

## Why

- When and why to use this

## <Main content sections>

Core knowledge from the session. Dense, technical, textbook-style.
Use code blocks, tables, callouts as appropriate.

## Links

- [Docs](url)
- [[wikilink|Related Note]] — if relevant notes exist in the vault

#tool #topic-tag
```

#### For session logs

Location: `<obsidian_vault>/<logs_dir>/YYYY-MM-DD-short-description.md`

Use lowercase Latin for the filename slug (e.g., `2026-02-16-fix-obsidian-notes.md`).

Structure:

```
# Short session description

Date: YYYY-MM-DD
Project: project name or directory

## What was done

- Bullet list of completed work

## Key decisions

- Important decisions and why they were made
(omit this section if there were no notable decisions)

## Changed files

- `path/to/file.md` — brief description of change
(omit this section if no files were changed)

#log #topic-tag
```

**Note on language:** The templates above are in English (the default). If `note_language` is set to something else (e.g., `Russian`), translate the section headers and prose into that language. Code, commands, filenames, and tags always stay in English.

### Step 3: Write the note

1. Use Glob to check the target path does not already exist
2. Write the note using the Write tool
3. Report what was created and where

### Rules

- No emojis
- Use Obsidian-flavored Markdown: `> [!INFO]`, `> [!tip]` callouts, `[[wikilinks]]`
- Tags at the end of file: `#tool`/`#log` + topic tags (`#go`, `#docker`, `#claude-code`, etc.)
- Be concise and technical. Capture the essence, not the full conversation.
- If there is nothing meaningful to note from the session, say so instead of creating an empty note.

Commit message:

refactor: use CLAUDE.md for config instead of config.yaml

skills/note/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: note
description: Create an Obsidian note summarizing the current session
argument-hint: "[learn|log]"
disable-model-invocation: true
allowed-tools:
  - Read
  - Write
  - Glob
---

## Git context

- Recent commits: !`git log --oneline -5 2>/dev/null || echo "not a git repo"`
- Changed files: !`git diff --stat 2>/dev/null || echo "no changes"`

## Configuration

The user's CLAUDE.md (already in context) contains an `obsidian-skills config` section with a YAML block. Extract these values:

- `obsidian_vault` (required) — absolute path to the vault root
- `learn_dir` (optional, default: `Learn`) — subdirectory for learn notes
- `logs_dir` (optional, default: `Logs`) — subdirectory for session logs
- `note_language` (optional, default: `English`) — language for note content (code, commands, filenames always stay in English)

If `obsidian_vault` is not found in context, stop and tell the user:
> To use /note, add Obsidian config to your `~/.claude/CLAUDE.md`. See: https://github.com/zulerne/claude-code-obsidian#configuration

## Task

Analyze the current conversation and create an Obsidian note.

### Step 1: Determine note type

If the user passed an argument (`$ARGUMENTS`), use it directly:
- `learn` — create a learn note
- `log` — create a session log

Otherwise, determine the type from conversation content:
- **Learn note** — if the session involved learning, explaining, or discussing fundamental concepts
- **Session log** — if the session involved project work: writing code, fixing bugs, configuring tools, refactoring

If the session is mixed, choose the dominant type. One note per invocation.

### Step 2: Create the note

#### For Learn notes

Location: `<obsidian_vault>/<learn_dir>/<section>/<Topic>.md`

Use the values from the config. Choose `<section>` based on the topic (e.g., `Docker/`, `Git/`, `AWS/`).

Structure:

```
# Topic Name

Concise description of what this is.

## Why

- When and why to use this

## <Main content sections>

Core knowledge from the session. Dense, technical, textbook-style.
Use code blocks, tables, callouts as appropriate.

## Links

- [Docs](url)
- [[wikilink|Related Note]] — if relevant notes exist in the vault

#tool #topic-tag
```

#### For session logs

Location: `<obsidian_vault>/<logs_dir>/YYYY-MM-DD-short-description.md`

Use lowercase Latin for the filename slug (e.g., `2026-02-16-fix-obsidian-notes.md`).

Structure:

```
# Short session description

Date: YYYY-MM-DD
Project: project name or directory

## What was done

- Bullet list of completed work

## Key decisions

- Important decisions and why they were made
(omit this section if there were no notable decisions)

## Changed files

- `path/to/file.md` — brief description of change
(omit this section if no files were changed)

#log #topic-tag
```

**Note on language:** The templates above are in English (the default). If `note_language` is set to something else (e.g., `Russian`), translate the section headers and prose into that language. Code, commands, filenames, and tags always stay in English.

### Step 3: Write the note

1. Use Glob to check the target path does not already exist
2. Write the note using the Write tool
3. Report what was created and where

### Rules

- No emojis
- Use Obsidian-flavored Markdown: `> [!INFO]`, `> [!tip]` callouts, `[[wikilinks]]`
- Tags at the end of file: `#tool`/`#log` + topic tags (`#go`, `#docker`, `#claude-code`, etc.)
- Be concise and technical. Capture the essence, not the full conversation.
- If there is nothing meaningful to note from the session, say so instead of creating an empty note.
